README.md, before:

# google-location-history-analysis

Python scripts and notebooks to analyze and visualize location history data from Google Takeout. Uses Pandas, Matplotlib, and Jupyter Notebook. Tested with Python 3.11 on a Windows system. The project is structured as follows:
- `history_parser` contains code for parsing Google Takeout data
- `analyze_activities.ipynb` is a notebook for analyzing ActivitySegments
- `analyze_places.ipynb` is a notebook for analyzing PlaceVisits
- `prepare_data.py` is a script that parses Google Takeout data and generates one CSV file containing ActivitySegment data and one containing PlaceVisit data

You can check out [this guide on how to download your Google Takeout data](https://www.howtogeek.com/725241/how-to-download-your-google-maps-data/).

**The minimum version of Python required is 3.10 due to [a bug in the Zipfile library](https://bugs.python.org/issue40564) that existed before 3.10**

# Set up

Install the requirements:
```shell
python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Prepare your Takeout data:
```shell
python prepare_data.py <INSERT_PATH_TO_TAKEOUT_ZIP>
```

Start Jupyter Notebook:
```shell
python -m jupyter notebook
```

Check out the notebooks for `analyze_activities.ipynb` and `analyze_places.ipynb`. In your browser, go to the link shown in the command line, e.g. `http://localhost:8888/?token=...`. The notebooks are `analyze_activities.ipynb` and `analyze_places.ipynb`.

# Ideas for Extension

- Join location data with the [Google Maps API](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/places/web-service/place-id) (via Place IDs) or use the lat/lon coordinates with an API such as [PositionStack](https://positionstack.com/documentation). However, I'm not sure whether that would bring any interesting insights
- Create a map visualization (e.g. using [Geopandas](https://geopandas.org/) with a heatmap of countries visited 
- Create a map visualization and draw the actual ActivitySegments on it using their lat/lon coordinates

Commit message:

Add Google Maps visualization using bokeh.
Also update the README.

README.md, after:

# google-location-history-analysis

Python scripts and notebooks to analyze [Google Location History](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/4388034?hl=en) data retrieved from [Google Takeout](https://takeout.google.com/settings/takeout). 

You can use [prepare_data.py](prepare_data.py) to read your zipped Takeout data and write it out to CSV files. Then you can use the [analyze_activities](analyze_activities.ipynb) and [analyze_places](analyze_places.ipynb) Jupyter notebooks to analyze your data interactively.

This project uses the [Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/), [Matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/), and [bokeh](https://bokeh.org) python libraries and was tested with Python 3.11. **The minimum version of Python required is 3.10 due to [a bug in the Zipfile library](https://bugs.python.org/issue40564) that existed before 3.10.**

# Setup

Clone this repository:
```shell
git clone https://github.com/Stefan4472/google-location-history-analysis.git
```

Create a python virtual environment:
```shell
cd google-location-history-analysis
python -m venv env
# Windows
call env\Scripts\activate
```

Install the required packages:
```shell
python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Prepare your Takeout data:
```shell
python prepare_data.py <INSERT_PATH_TO_TAKEOUT_ZIP>
```

Start Jupyter Notebook:
```shell
python -m jupyter notebook
```

Go to the link shown in the command line, e.g. `http://localhost:8888/?token=...` and try out the `analyze_activities.ipynb` and `analyze_places.ipynb` notebooks on your own data!
